---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 18: N-View Computational Methods"
date:       2018-12-16
author:     Tong
catalog: true
tags:
    - MVG
---

> All contents come from <<Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision>>.

### Abstract

This chapter describes computational methods for estimating a projective or affine reconstruction from a set of images - in particular where the number of views is large.

### 18.1 Projective reconstruction - bundle adjustment

1. Given the set of image coordinates $$x_j^i$$, find the set of camera matrices, $$P^i$$, and the points $$X_j$$ such that $$P^iX_j=x_j^i$$.

2. If the image measurements are noisy, then the equations $$x_j^i = P^i X_j$$ will not be satisfied exactly. In this case, we seek the Maximum Likelihood (ML) solution assuming that the measurement noise is Gaussian: We wish to estimate projection matrices $$\hat{P}^i$$ and 3D points $$\hat{X}_j$$ which project exactly to image points $$\hat{x}_j^i$$ as $$\hat{x}_j^i=\hat{P}^i \hat{X}_j$$, and also minimize the image distance between the reprojected point and detected (measured) image points $$x_j^i$$ for every view in which the 3D points appears, i.e. $$\min_{\hat{P}^i, \hat{X}_j}\sum_{ij}d(\hat{P}^i \hat{X}_j,x_j^i)^2 \quad \quad (18.1)$$, where $$d(x,y)$$ is the geometric image distance between the homogeneous points $$x$$ and $$y$$.

3. The above estimation involving minimizing the reprojection error is known as _bundle adjustment_ - it involves adjusting the bundle of rays between each camera centre and the set of 3D points (and equivalently between each 3D point and the set of camera centres).

4. Bundle adjustment should generally be used as a final step of any reconstruction algorithm. This method has the advantages of being tolerant of missing data while providing a true ML estimate. At the same time, it allows assignment of individual covariances (or more general PDFs) to each measurement and may also be extended to include estimates of priors and constraints on camera parameters or point positions.

5. It requires a good initializaiton to be provided, and it can become an extremely large minimization problem because of the number of parameters involved.

### 18.2 Affine reconstruction - the factorization algorithm

#### 18.2.1 Affine multiple view tensors

#### 18.2.2 Triangulation and reprojection using subspaces

#### 18.2.3 Affine Reconstruction by Alternation

### 18.3 Non-rigid factorization

#### 18.3.1 Subspaces and tensors

#### 18.3.2 Recovering the camera motion

### 18.4 Projective factorization

#### 18.4.1 Choosing the depths

#### 18.4.2 What is being minimized?

#### 18.4.3 Normalizing the depths

#### 18.4.4 Normalizing the image coordinates

#### 18.4.5 When is the assumption $$\lambda_j^i = 1$$ reasonable?

### 18.5 Projective reconstruction using planes

#### 18.5.1 Direct solution for structure and translation

#### 18.5.2 Direct motion estimation

### 18.6 Reconstruction from sequences

### 18.7 Closure
