---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 13: Scene planes and homographies"
date:       2018-12-14
author:     Tong
catalog: true
tags:
    - MVG
---

> All contents come from <<Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision>>.

### Abstract

This chapter describes the projective geometry of two cameras and a world plane.

There are two relations between the two views: first, through the epipolar geometry, a point in one view determines a line in the other which is the image of the ray through the point; and second, through the homography, a point in one view determines a point in the other which is the image of the intersection of the ray with the plane.

Two other important notions: the parallax with respect to a plane, and the infinite homography.

### 13.1 Homographies given the plane and vice versa

1. In general position, the homography is determined uniquely by the plane and vice versa. General position in this case means that the plane does not contain either of the camera centres. If the plane does contain one of the camera centre, then the induced homography is degenerate.

2. __Result 13.1.__ Given the projection matrices for the two views $$P=[I \quad 0] \quad \quad P^\prime=[A \quad a]$$ and a plane defined by $$\pi ^T X = 0$$ with $$\pi = (v^T,1)^T$$, then the homography induced by the plane is $$x^\prime=Hx$$ with $$H=A-av^T \quad \quad (13.1)$$.

#### 13.1.1 Homographies compatible with epipolar geometry

1. A homography $$H$$ is compatible with a fundamental matrix $$F$$ if and only if the matrix $$H^T F$$ is skew-symmetric: $$H^T F + F^T H= 0 \quad \quad (13.3)$$.

2. __Result 13.3.__ Given the fundamental matrix $$F$$ between two views, the three-parameter family of homographies induced by a world plane is $$H=A-e^\prime v^T \quad \quad (13.4)$$, where $$\left [ e^\prime \right ]_ \times A = F$$ is any decomposition of the fundamental matrix.

### 13.2 Plane induced homographies given $$F$$ and image correspondences

1. The corresponding image entities have to satisfy _consistency constraints_ with the epipolar geometry.

2. There are _degenerate configurations_ of the 3D elements and cameras for which the homography is not defined. Such degeneracies arise from collinearities and coplanarities of the 3D elements and the epipolar geometry. There may also be degeneracies of the solution method, but these can be avoided.

#### 13.2.1 Three points  

1.

#### 13.2.2 A point and line

1.


### 13.3 Computing $$F$$ given the homography induced by a plane

### 13.4 The infinite homography $$H_\infty$$

### 13.5 Closure
