---
layout:     post
title:      "Perspective-n-Points"
date:       2020-3-3
author:     Tong
catalog: true
tags:
    - Technique
---

### DLT[^Abdel1971]

#### Abstract

A method for photogrammetric data reduction without the necessity for neither fiducial marks nor initial approximations for inner and outer orientation parameters of the camera has been developed. This approach is particularly suitable for reduction of data from non-metric photography, but has also distinct advantages in its application to metric photography. Preliminary fictitious data tests indicate that the approach is promising. Experiments with real data are underway.

### P3P Fischler[^Fischler81]

#### Abstract

A new paradigm, Random Sample Consensus (RANSAC), for fitting a model to experimental data is introduced. RANSAC is capable of interpreting/smoothing data containing a significant percentage of gross errors, and is thus ideally suited for applications in automated image analysis where interpretation is based on the data provided by error-prone feature detectors. A major portion of this paper describes the application of RANSAC to the Localization Determination Problem (LDP): Given an image depicting a set of landmarks with known locations, determine that point in space from which the image was obtained. In response to a RANSAC requirement, new results are derived on the minimum number of landmarks needed to obtain a solution, and algorithms are presented for computing these minimum-landmarks solutions in closed form. These results provide the basis for an automatic system that can solve the LDP under difficult viewing and analysis conditions. Implementation details and computational examples are also presented.

### P3P Gao[^Gao03]

#### Abstract

In this paper, we use two approaches to solve the Perspective-Three-Point (P3P) problem: the algebraic approach and the geometric approach. In the algebraic approach, we use Wu-Ritt's zero decomposition algorithm to give a complete triangular decomposition for the P3P equation system. This decomposition provides the first complete analytical solution to the P3P problem. We also give a complete solution for the classification for the P3P equation system, i.e., we give explicit criteria for the P3P problem to have one, two, three, and four solutions. Combing the analytical solutions with the criteria, we provide an algorithm, _CASSC_, which may be used to find complete and robust numerical solutions to the P3P problem. In the geometric approach, we give some pure geometric criteria for the number of real physical solutions.

### EPnP[^Lepetit09]

#### Abstract

We propose a non-iterative solution to the PnP problem—the estimation of the pose of a calibrated camera from n 3D-to-2D point correspondences— whose computational complexity grows linearly with n. This is in contrast to state-of-the-art methods that are $$O(n^5)$$ or even $$O(n^8)$$, without being more accurate. Our method is applicable for all $$n \geq 4$$ and handles properly both planar and non-planar configurations. Our central idea is to express the n 3D points as a weighted sum of four virtual control points. The problem then reduces to estimating the coordinates of these control points in the camera referential, which can be done in $$O(n)$$ time by expressing these coordinates as weighted sum of the eigenvectors of a $$12 \times 12$$ matrix and solving a small constant number of quadratic equations to pick the right weights. Furthermore, if maximal precision is required, the output of the closed-form solution can be used to initialize a Gauss-Newton scheme, which improves accuracy with negligible amount of additional time. The advantages of our method are demonstrated by thorough testing on both synthetic and real-data.

### P3P Kneip[^Kneip11]

#### Abstract

The Perspective-Three-Point (P3P) problem aims at determining the position and orientation of the camera in the world reference frame from three 2D-3D point correspondences. This problem is known to provide up to four solutions that can then be disambiguated using a fourth point. All existing solutions attempt to first solve for the position of the points in the camera reference frame, and then compute the position and orientation of the camera in the world frame, which aligns the two point sets. In contrast, in this paper we propose a novel closed-form solution to the P3P problem, which computes the aligning transformation directly in a single stage, without the intermediate derivation of the points in the camera frame. This is made possible by introducing intermediate camera and world reference frames, and expressing their relative position and orientation using only two parameters. The projection of a world point into the parametrized camera pose then leads to two conditions and finally a quartic equation for finding up to four solutions for the parameter pair. A subsequent backsubstitution directly leads to the corresponding camera poses with respect to the world reference frame. We show that the proposed algorithm offers accuracy and precision comparable to a popular, standard, state-of-the-art approach but at much lower computational cost (15 times faster). Furthermore, it provides improved numerical stability and is less affected by degenerate configurations of the selected world points. The superior computational efficiency is particularly suitable for any RANSAC-outlier rejection step, which is always recommended before applying PnP or non-linear optimization of the final solution.

### P3P Ke[^Ke17]

#### Abstract

In this work, we present an algebraic solution to the classical perspective-3-point (P3P) problem for determining the position and attitude of a camera from observations of three known reference points. In contrast to previous approaches, we first directly determine the camera’s attitude by employing the corresponding geometric constraints to formulate a system of trigonometric equations. This is then efficiently solved, following an algebraic approach, to determine the unknown rotation matrix and subsequently the camera’s position. As compared to recent alternatives, our method avoids computing unnecessary (and potentially numerically unstable) intermediate results, and thus achieves higher numerical accuracy and robustness at a lower computational cost. These benefits are validated through extensive Monte-Carlo simulations for both nominal and close-to-singular geometric configurations.

#### Introduction

The main advantagees of our approach are:
- Our algorithm’s implementation takes about 33% of the time required by the current state of the art [^Kneip11].
- Our method achieves better accuracy than [^Kneip11] [^Masselli14] under nominal conditions. Moreover, we are able to further improve the numerical precision by applying root polishing to the solutions of the quartic polynomial while remaining significantly faster than [^Kneip11] [^Masselli14].
- Our algorithm is more robust than [^Kneip11] [^Masselli14] when considering close-to-singular configurations (the three points are almost collinear or very close to each other).

### Literature

[^Abdel1971]: Abdel-Aziz, Y. I., H. M. Karara, and Michael Hauck. "Direct linear transformation from comparator coordinates into object space coordinates in close-range photogrammetry." Photogrammetric Engineering & Remote Sensing 81.2 (2015): 103-107.

[^Fischler81]: Fischler, Martin A., and Robert C. Bolles. "Random sample consensus: a paradigm for model fitting with applications to image analysis and automated cartography." Communications of the ACM 24.6 (1981): 381-395

[^Gao03]: Gao, Xiao-Shan, et al. "Complete solution classification for the perspective-three-point problem." IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 25.8 (2003): 930-943.

[^Lepetit09]: Lepetit, Vincent, Francesc Moreno-Noguer, and Pascal Fua. "Epnp: An accurate o (n) solution to the pnp problem." International journal of computer vision 81.2 (2009): 155.

[^Kneip11]: Kneip, Laurent, Davide Scaramuzza, and Roland Siegwart. "A novel parametrization of the perspective-three-point problem for a direct computation of absolute camera position and orientation." CVPR 2011. IEEE, 2011.

[^Masselli14]: A. Masselli and A. Zell. A new geometric approach for faster solving the perspective-three-point problem. In Proc. of the IEEE International Conference on Pattern Recognition, pages 2119–2124, Stockholm, Sweden, Aug. 24–28 2014.

[^Ke17]: Ke, Tong, and Stergios I. Roumeliotis. "An efficient algebraic solution to the perspective-three-point problem." Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 2017.
