---
layout:     post
title:      "REMODE: Probabilistic, Monocular Dense Reconstruction in Real Time [2014]"
date:       2020-2-22
author:     Tong
catalog: true
tags:
    - SLAM
---

> https://github.com/uzh-rpg/rpg_open_remode

### Abstract

In this paper, we solve the problem of estimating dense and accurate depth maps from a single moving camera.
A probabilistic depth measurement is carried out in real time on a per-pixel basis and the computed uncertainty is used to reject erroneous estimations and provide live feedback on the reconstruction progress. Our contribution is a novel approach to depth map computation that combines Bayesian estimation and recent development on convex optimization for image processing. We demonstrate that our method outperforms state of-the-art techniques in terms of accuracy, while exhibiting high efficiency in memory usage and computing power. We call our approach REMODE (REgularized MOnocular Depth Estimation) and the CUDA-based implementation runs at 30Hz on a laptop computer.


### Contributions

- A probabilistic depth map, in which the Bayesian scheme in [^Vogiatzis2011] is integrated in a monocular SLAM algorithm to estimate per-pixel depths based on the live camera stream.

- A fast smoothing method that takes into account the measurement uncertainty to provide spatial regularity and mitigates the effect of noisy camera localization.

### Smoothing depth map

$$
\min _{F} \int_{\Omega}\left\{G(\mathbf{u})\|\nabla F(\mathbf{u})\|_{\epsilon}+\lambda\|F(\mathbf{u})-D(\mathbf{u})\|_{1}\right\} d \mathbf{u},
$$

where $$D(\mathbf{u})$$ is the depth map to smooth, $$F(\mathbf{u})$$ is the de-noised depth map, $$G(\mathbf{u})$$ is a weighting function related to the "G-Weighted Total Variation", introduced in [^Bresson2007] in the context of image segmentation.

### Literature

[^Bresson2007]: SX. Bresson, S. Esedoglu, P. Vandergheynst, J.-P. Thiran, and S. Osher, “Fast global minimization of the active contour/snake model,” Journal of Mathematical Imaging and Vision, vol. 28, no. 2, 2007.

[^Vogiatzis2011]: G. Vogiatzis and C. Hernandez, _Video-based, real-time multi-view stereo_, Image and Vision Computing, vol. 29, no. 7, 2011.
